What is 'Racism' and how do you account for its persistence in modern societies?
Explore the limitations and uses of official statistics, using the internal and radical approaches, and conclude should sociologists use official statistics?
Discuss the implications for women, in gender and class terms, of the rise of medicine as a profession
Why do women have children? Why do some not do so?
What groups and individuals are most at risk from unemployment and what explains their vulnerability?
Consider how Victorian notions of women's madness affected the lives of women in class specific ways
Outline the social and political factors that led to the development of feminism in Japan
In what way and to what extent was consumption significant in establishing class and gender identity in the Victorian period?
Can Pi?sudski's coup d'etat be justified?
Was the communisation of Eastern Europe a foregone conclusion in May 1945?
In what way did the German humanists prepare the ground for the Reformation?
How useful is it to separate the 'form' of social life from its 'content'?
Analyze and assess the relationship between revolution and democracy in the works and deeds of Karl Marx / Friedrich Engels, Vladimir I. Lenin and Joseph Stalin.
Is Rousseau's Social Contract more convincingly seen as a text of liberal, or of totalitarian democracy?
A Decade of Pluralism or Ideology?
Why did workers rather than communist reformers spearhead the Polish Solidarity movement of 1980-81?
Why did the British suffragettes make the female body into a site of political conflict?
How is the Construction of Gender Identities Related to Imperialism and Racism? Discuss With Particular Reference to Ideas About 'White Manhood' in the Adventure Story of Late Nineteenth Century Britain
'Having a View About the Nature of Social Reality is not an Option'. What is your Own View Now, Towards the End of the Course, and What Has Persuaded you to Adopt it?
Critically Evaluate the Assertion that Sporting Practices and their Associated Subcultures Bear no Relation Whatsoever to the Social Construction of Masculine Ideals
To what extent is class no longer an operative word in historical anaylsis?
Vehicle of Propaganda or Agent of Subversion? Cold War Hollywood Bomb Cinema 1950-1963.
Account for the failure of the 1905 Revolution?
Account for the rise of Stalin in the 1920's
'Marriage was the hinge upon which the demographic regime turned.' Discuss.
How should we explain the gap between theory and practice in the social position of women in early modern England?
How Marxist Is Habermas's work? How convincing is the ideal speech situation as a means of emancipation?
What are the Advantages and Disadvantages of Stage Models of Cognitive Development?
Discuss the Merits and Demerits of a Strictly Behavioural Approach to the Treatment of Psychological Disorders
How Can Psychologists Best Use Qualitative Methods In Research?
Do Twentieth Century Massacres Share Common Characteristics?
What, if anything, does Oscar Wilde's Portrait of Dorian Gray Owe to Cesare Lombroso?
Assess the importance of the Columbian Exchange in altering Diets in the New World
Why did the East Asian economy grow more slowly than the European economy by 1800?
The Impact of the Black Death has been Greatly Exaggerated.' Discuss.
'The importance of Florence in the development of the Italian Renaissance has been exaggerated'. Discuss.
Did Darwin's Theory of Evolution Counter the Romantic View of Nature?
Was migration into early modern London driven more by 'push' or 'pull' factors?
Why are some children more popular than others and what consequences does this have for psychological development?
Are there any tetrachromats? Why would we expect them to be women? How would their vision be different to trichromats?
Critically evaluate psychological theory and research on the process of deliberation in juries
'The real struggle in the period 1918-1921 was between the Bolsheviks and the popular movement rather than between the Bolsheviks and the Whites.' Discuss.
'Soviet victory over Nazi Germany owes more to the efforts of the Russian people than to those of their government.' Discuss.
Why are people's memories influenced by their feelings?
Compare the methods, theories and contributions of any two psychologists
Discuss the merits and demerits of a strictly behavioural approach to the treatment of psychological disorders
How should the Holocaust be memorialised?
Was European imperialism primarily an economic or a cultural phenomenon?
Did the Enlightenment necessarily imply Revolution?
Discuss the view of J. C. Davis that the 'Ranters' were inventions of seventeenth century conservatives and twentieth century Marxists.
What is the nature of Gerrard Winstanley's religious outlook in The New Law of Righteousness 1649?
What was 'wrong' with the Church on the eve of the Reformation?
Why were Chinese luxury goods of so much fascination to seventeenth and eighteenth century Europeans?
What were the implications of the eighteenth and late nineteenth century luxury debates?
Did Hitler's 'charismatic rule' make the Third Reich stronger or weaker as a dictatorship?
How important was the role of the West in the social unrests of the 19th Century?
Critically evaluate research and theory on the authoritarian personality
Evaluate the contributions made by discourse analysis and verbal report data in psychology.
From a psychobiological perspective, critically evaluate the notion that losing weight is merely a matter of will power
What do newborns know and what do they come to learn about the world during their first year of life?
Discuss the main psychological effects of dementia on (a) the patient and (b) the caregiver
Discuss how psychological research you have learned about in this course relates to each of THREE criminal or civil cases chosen from any Commonwealth country or from the US.
What can we learn from studies of aging and selective attention?
Imagine you are designing a curriculum for primary school science classes. Consider how research in cognitive development could help you decide which concepts are taught when.
Should we be worried about the effects on children of aggressive images on film and television?
Analyse ONE or TWO plays studied this term showing how and why they can be considered examples of Naturalism or Expression.
Compare and contrast the artistic programmes of two performing arts venues in Britain, showing how each demonstrates commitments to the concepts of social inclusion and cultural diversity. Append literature from each chosen venue to illustrate your answer.
Staging Shakespeare's The Tempest
Explore some of the main differences between a satiric and a sentimental approach to playwriting.
The libretto grasps 'the inner psychology and emotions of the characters and these are portrayed for all they are worth by the music.' (Jack M. Stein). Using three sections of Tristan and Isolde, illustrate Wagner's theory on the emotional power of music drama when its elements are successfully combined.
Melodrama responded to the tastes and desires of the mass audience in the nineteenth century. Focusing on at least three plays or one playhouse that we have studied on the course, explore how the genre reflected the contemporary social climate.
'The concern of the epic theatre is thus eminently practical. Human behaviour is shown as alterable; man himself as dependant on certain political and economic factors and at the same time as capable of altering them.' (Brecht) Discuss with detailed reference to Marxist-Leninist theory and two or three plays by Brecht.
In what ways does the film and/or book 'London Orbital' present an instructive vision of the early 21st century metropolis?
Exploring the "non-place" in Contemporary society
Is the Cartesian committed to the thesis that it must be possible to make independently intelligible what is meant by identity and difference of human consciousness
What was revolutionary about the French Revolution?
'The Bolsheviks were successful in their quest for power in 1917 because they enjoyed popular support.' Discuss.
When did American independence from Britain become inevitable?
Do Western understandings of Asia continue to be informed by Orientalist assumptions?
Does Ranke deserve the title 'father of scientific history'?
To what extent was there a dichotomy in the theories of pastoralism and progression in relation to the landscape in North America?
What factors account for the failure of the Church Missionary Society's Wellington Valley Mission?
How much did the early Reformation in Germany owe to Martin Luther's personality and ideas?
Why was Calvinism the most successful brand of Protestantism in later sixteenth Century Europe?
To what extent was there an inconsistent depiction of extra-European peoples by Europeans after their initial contact in the New World?
Compare and contrast the migrations to New England and the Chesapeake before 1640.
Account for the failure at Roanoke.
Native Americans were doomed from the outset. Discuss.
In what ways and to what extent did an Enlightenment world-view shape life in colonial New South Wales from c. 1788-1850?
Was there anything different about the railroad narrative of progress, or was it much the same as that for the axe or the mill?
Was India enriched or impoverished by British colonial rule?
In what ways did the development of connections between East and West contribute to divergence from the later eighteenth century?
How does Sensation become Perception?
Compare the Methods, Theories and Contributions of any two Psychologists
Are there two systems of reasoning? Make reference to Sloman (1996) and Stanovich and West (2000)
If Regionalism undermines the sovereignty of states, why do so many states join regional organisations?
'A gets B to do something that he or she would not otherwise do.' Does this sum up the essence of political power?
Why is elite interviewing regarded as a research technique of particular relevance to politics? Discuss its particular strengths and limitations in relation to political research
Prime Ministerial/Cabinet Government
To what extent was Europe 'secure' during the Cold War?
If the Way of Truth is true, why does Parmenides write the Way of Seeming?
The lunatic, the lover, and the poet/Are of imagination all compact. Consider the relationship between poetry and truth in one or two of the following texts: The Republic, the Poetics, An Apology for Poetry, A Midsummer Night's Dream.
How successfully did the Church impose its moral values on society in the period 1560-1640?
'War memorials and associated ceremonies are often intended to warn against war but end up glorifying it'. Discuss
Was European Imperialism a violation or an integral component of liberal ideology?
Authority and servility of women in Early Modern marriages
In what senses was there a commercial revolution in the thirteenth century?
Can the witchcraft phenomenon still be interpreted as a 'persecution of women'?
Are you convinced by the view of the Levellers on franchise reform as expressed by McPherson in his Political Origins of Possessive Individualism?
In what ways did Braudel conserve and in what ways contradict the Annales tradition?
Discuss the relations between the East India Companies and Indian merchants in the development of trade between Asia and Europe.
To what extent can the changing priorities and organisation of the English East India Company between 1757 and 1857 be explained by interactions with Indian elites?
The Impact of the Black Death has been exaggerated. Discuss
The Growth and Elaboration of the rituals surrounding public execution in Early Modern England
Lifestyle choices and health-related behaviour have been put forward to explain current patterns of health inequalities. Critically evaluate this explanation, drawing on current evidence on inequalities in health.
Solving Polynomials
Cohomology and Exotic Manifolds
Hypercomplex Numbers, Division Algebras and Cayley-Dickson construction
How did medieval merchants solve the fundamental problem of exchange in long distance trade? What light does this shed on the prosperity of the Venetian Republic and Portugal before 1700?
What factors lead to the slowdown of the US economy in 2001? Have matters improved in 2004? Evaluate the risks of a downturn in 2005 if oil prices remain over $40 a barrel. What are the effects on the European and Asian economies?
Nuclear Power - A Source of Hazardous Waste
What accounts for the "Golden Age" of economic growth in Europe, roughly 1950-1973? Discuss both general issues affecting Europe as whole and specific issues affecting any one particular country.
Is it be the case that firms must maximize profits in order to survive?
It follows from the first theorem of welfare economics that the educational system would work more efficiently if schools were profit-motivated firms instead of state sector agents. Discuss.
What does Descartes mean by a 'real distinction' between mind and body? How does his argument for the real distinction work?
What factors increase the level of unemployment in an economy? Use your analysis to explain the rise in European unemployment since 1980 and differing experience of the 'Big 4' (France, Italy, Germany, and Spain) and rest in 1990's
Do we need to solve the problem of induction?
Explain and assess Locke's account of sense perception.
Must a subject/object-oriented conception of logic admit to the revisability of logic?
What is involved in the project of 'naturalizing epistemology' according to W.V.O Quine?
How does neurobiological development constrain cognitive development?
Mapping the reward circuits in the human nervous system
Thomas Nagel and the Unity of Consciousness
To what extent should policy be used to stabilise the economy? Discuss with examples from the UK.
Bertrand competition is more 'intense' than Cournot competition. Discuss.
Compare the representation of war in 'Wo warst du, Adam?' and 'Die Brücke.'
'Mérimée aims above all to control and gratify the reader. At all times he has in mind the effects of his composition.' Discuss with reference to Mateo Falcone and Tamango.
Compare the representation of the press in Böll's Die verlorene Ehre der Katharina Blum and Maron's Flugasche.
'La Place is a pessimistic view of social conditioning and class divisions.' Do you agree?
Discuss the use of irony in Les Liaisons dangereuses
Compare and contrast Kuhle Wampe, Hitlerjunge Quex and Triumph des Willens as vehicles of propaganda. Which in your view is the most effective? Give reasons for your answer.
'Madame Bovary is a novel which illustrates the dangers of living life as if it were fiction.' To what extent do you agree with this account of Flaubert's novel?
Compare and contrast the portrayal of crime and justice in M. Eine Stadt sucht einen Mörder, and Der aufhaltsame Aufstieg des Arturo Ui.
The use of style indirect libre in Madame Bovary
La Déclaration des droits de l'homme est avant tout une machine de guerre contre l'Ancien Régime'. Discuss.
How did the Church justify the crusades? Answer with close reference to Ecclesiastical sources for the crusades and, if you wish, any other source studied for this module.
'The Occitan fragments of the Canso d'Antioca is propaganda rather than history.' Discuss.
Did Luther's three major treatises of 1520 mark a turning point in the development of his ideas?
Examine the significance of the reference to May 68 in Chapter XVIII of Les mots pour le dire.
The eng law on vicarious liability is the best compromise which could have been reached between the needs of tort victims for compensation and the freedom of businesses to operate without excessive burdens.' Discuss, making reference to decided cases.
Consider whether the Criminal Law and the procedures and principles which underpin it, are being undermined by new procedures aimed at anti-social behaviour.
The legal profession: 'a profession which has far too long seen itself as above the law.' Discuss.
'If a realistic medical jurisprudence is to develop, judges must extend their focus beyond rights and duties and confront the fundamental issue of resources.' Discuss
Invisible death: The teaching of Thanatology to medical students.
Consideration is a perfectly adequate test of liability in contract, the so-called doctrine of intention to create legal relations is superfluous. Discuss this statement in the light of decided cases.
Ethics Essay: The Case for Euthanasia in Clinical Practice
A critical evaluation of the impact of the judicial decisions of the late Lord Denning MR, on the rights of persons in residential occupation.
The decision of the Court in Williams v Roffey Bros [(1991) 1 QB 1, Court of Appeal] which suggests that performance of an existing (contractual) duty can constitute consideration where it results in 'practical benefit' to the promisor creates further ambiguity in the scope of consideration in eng contract law. Discuss.
The development of international criminal law in the latter half of the twentieth century demonstrates that governments can no longer behave with impunity. - Discuss -
Critically evaluate the substantive and procedural approach to the regulation of mergers in the UK under the Enterprise Act 2002. What are the main differences to the previous approach?
Why is democracy better than autocracy for economic development?
Media Treatment of the Extension of Maternity Leave
Should the Dutch economy be seen as the first modern economy?
Leaving the "Efficient Market Hypothesis Behind" - Noise Trader Risk in Financial Markets and how to Exploit it
To what extent does the rise of the 'knowledge economy' reflect fundamental changes in the nature of capitalism and work?
To what extent does the reduction in the number of elected union representatives in the French workplace reflect a decline in union influence?
Is there any evidence to suggest that the French trade union movement is beginning to overcome traditional ideological divisions? What may account for the nature of the change found?
How relevant is Marx's labour theory of value in analysing the nature of employment under contemporary capitalism?
Critically consider the idea of a Third Way for the Welfare State
Review of the Main International Relations Theories
Assess the centrality of the concept of 'embeddedness' to Polanyi's The Great Transformation and its significance for IPE scholarship.
In what respect is the German system of vocational education supposed to be superior to our own? How strong is the evidence for this alleged superiority?
Identify the main strengths and weaknesses of the 'classic' welfare state
Investigation into how 'quality newspapers': The Guardian, The Independent, The Times and The Telegraph, responded to Gordon Brown's Labour Party Conference Speech delivered on the 27th Sept 2004
What were the main principles informing the Conservative's approach to social policy and the welfare state after 1979?
How adequate are the conceptions of justice offered by liberal political theory?
In what ways has feminism challenged conventional thinking about politics?
The role of social housing in many modern welfare states, is contracting and changing. Analyse and explain the changes referred to here.
Institutioins and Economic Development
The East Asian 'Tigers' - Was Free Trade the Key to Success?
Coordination of Wage Bargaining - Does it increase mark-up and generate higher prices?
What Have We Learned about Banking Crises? An outlook on the Argentine Situation, Prospects and Policy Recommendations
The time consistency problem in Monetary Policy: How an independent Central Bank helps to reduce it
How does the Imperfect Information Assumption explain Credit Rationing? Some evidence from Argentina*
Theoretical models of consumer behaviour often stress the importance of perceived personal wealth, but models based on empirical data still rely heavily on the influence of current personal income. Why?
Malthusian Trap and Economic Growth
Evaluate the case for reform of Britain's law on industrial conflicts in the light of the Gate Gourmet dispute during the summer of 2005.
Critically evaluate Kenichi Ohmae's statement that '...in terms of the world economy, nation states have become little more than bit actors'.
Survey data indicate an increased use of direct employee involvement techniques by UK employers. Why is this and what is gained through the use of such techniques?
Transformational leadership has been described on the one hand as 'indispensable' for organizational effectiveness, and on the other hand as 'unnecessary' and potentially 'a dangerous curse'. Critically evaluate these differing perspectives, drawing your own conclusion.
Describe the Impact of Any One Historical Individual From Any Period On The Development and Understanding of the Mind.
Is it Worthwhile to Test Intelligence?
Are There Two Systems of Reasoning? Make Reference to Sloman (1996), and Stanovich and West (2000)
Critically Evaluate the Evidence that Different Stages of Sleep Aid Different Types of Learning.
Is Hillman (2001) Correct to Claim that the Boundary between the Self and the World is "the only one Core Issue for Psychology"?
Is Contempory Britain a Depressogenic Society?
In What Sense can we speak of Animals Having Culture?
Can social psychological theory and research on prejudice and intergroup relations offer any insights into, or hopes for improvement of, contemporary political violence and terrorism?
Introduction
Table of Cases
European Law Essay
Explain the theoretical differences between the Solow model and the endogenous Growth models. Which model is closer to reality? Comment on studies that have tested the validity of these models.
An Organisational Behaviour Essay: Critically discuss the benefits and downsides of "strong" organisational cultures.
Economics Coursework Assignment: What factors led to the slowdown of the US economy in 2001? Have matters improved in 2004? Evaluate the risks of a downturn in 2005 if oil prices remain over $40 a barrel. What are the effects on the European and Asian economies?
The European Council does not play a formal role in Community decision-making and does not constitute an institution hierarchically superior to the Community Institutions. (Koen Lenaerts) Discuss.
In what ways does the floating charge fall short of being an ideal security for credit extended to companies, especially small companies, by banks and other parties dealing with those companies?
'Famines in India have been caused primarily by government policies.' Discuss.
Discuss the nature of hoplite warfare, its development and consequences
'Inherent in the plays of Aeschylus, Sophocles and Euripides are debates that pushed at the cultural norms of democratic Athens'. Assess this statement with reference to at least one play.
Explain the economic policy problems facing a country in a liquidity trap. What policy would you recommend to help a country get out of a liquidity trap?
What does Mackie mean by the "queerness" of moral values? Is this a good reason for endorsing his thesis that there are no objective values?
What does it mean to be 'dramatically literate'? How can all students be taught to understand and appreciate a wide variety of theatre forms?
How can drama be used to enhance the development of literacy skills? Develop an argument for the significance of drama in literacy strategies and describe, with examples, the practical approaches that you would advocate.
Can the economic history of Britain in the late 18th and early 19th centuries be described as an industrial revolution?
The extent to which a monopoly induces economic inefficiency depends, among other things, upon factors such as: (i) vertical integration in the market, (ii) horizontal market contestability, (iii) technology, (iv) the role of advertising and (v) market demand elasticity. Discuss.
Consider the arguments for and against euthanasia as a limited defence to murder, available only to the medical profession
There is one right answer for every legal question. Discuss.
Family Law Assessment
Crime and the Sanctioning Process Assessment
The European Council does not play a formal role in Community decision-making and does not constitute an institution hierarchically superior to the Community Institutions. (Koen Lenaerts). Discuss.
Consideration is a perfectly adequate test of liability in contract, the so-called doctrine of intention to create legal relations is superfluous. Discuss this statement in light of decided cases.
Business strategies demand discipline in the execution of long-term strategic plans and flexibility to address emergent changes. Discuss. Explain which one of the two features is more critical in your view.
What implications does human relations theory have for the organization of work?
Whether worker happiness leads to productivity
Class Definitions
Corporate Governance
Discuss in detail a production of a contemporary British play. How fully did it met the demands of the script, and did it constitute an interpretation of it?
Saved is almost irresponsibly optimistic What can Edward Bond have meant?
Poetry and Society: 1500-word close reading exercise of 'The Badger' by John Clare.
In what ways does Translations explain the idea that "a civilisation can be imprisoned in a linguistic contour that no longer matched the landscape... of fact." [Act II, Scene I]
With particular reference to the Oresteia and Bacchae, explore the ways in which madness, as a female affliction, emasculates and destroys tragic male characters.
In what ways, and for what reasons, have theatre/performance makers challenged the formal properties of Realism?
Assess the similarities and differences between the early eng settlements of North America and those of the Spanish colonisers.
How successful was the New Deal?
Why do so many people in the world today go hungry?
Was it racism or economic factors that caused the enslavement of Africans in colonial North America?
To what extent did the Romantic Movement pave the way for modern environmentalism?
Did Anabaptism present a serious threat to established authority in the sixteenth-century?
In what ways did religion affect the lives of people in early modern Europe, c.1500?
Did Britain's commercial empire depend on slavery?
Why did Americans build skyscrapers?
Why was the railroad important in generating popularity for Atlantic City as a mass resort?
How did silver mining influence the development of the Mexican economy during the sixteenth century?
Did the Spanish 'spiritual conquest' fail in sixteenth-century Peru?
How did religious belief influence and interact with Inca imperial expansion, ca. 1430-1530?
Investigate the immediate public reaction and political consequences of the República Cromañón tragedy in Buenos Aires.
Examining the rivalry between Boca Juniors and River Plate, discuss the historical importance of football in Argentinian society.
Were 19th century Indians in Peru able to conceive of the "nation"? How did foreign wars alter their pact with the nation state?
'The 1950s offered distinctly mixed blessings for American Women.' Discuss.
As the nineteenth century progressed, U.S. narratives seem to shift from tales of optimism to ones more guarded and elegiac about lost opportunities. Discuss.
Give a close analysis of Gabriela Mistral's "La Tierra".
Examine the Indian position and response to Creole republicanism in nineteenth century postcolonial Peru.
How can psychologists best use qualitative methods in research? In your answer, pay particular attention to the reliability and validity of qualitative research methods, and refer to at least two empirical research papers published in the period January 2003 - November 2005.
'A gets B to do something that he or she would not otherwise do'. Does this sum up the essence of political power?
Is Marxism dead?
Why do so few Americans vote? Do American voters make highly individualised choices or are there any regularities in voting behaviour that can be observed? Illustrate your answer with some references to the 2004 Presidential elections.
Is the UN an effective international organisation?
There is a simple fact that underpins any analysis of China's global role - China is not a terribly important country" (Gerry Segal) Discuss.
Does Locke justify unlimited accumulation?
Critically assess the major conceptual ideas of Liberals about International Relations
Evaluate Marx's conception of the capitalist social order as antagonistic and crisis prone.
What are the bases of employees' commitment to customer service and to what extent does achieving such commitment require the management of emotion?
In what circumstances would you expect an organisation to take a strategic approach to recruitment and selection? What policies and practices would characterize such an approach?
What part did the discovery of a sea passage to Asia play in explaining the decline of the Ottoman Empire?
Assess Bayley's account of the crises of empire in the late eighteenth -early nineteenth centuries. How does his account of 'world crises' compare with Goldstone's account of world crisis in the mid seventeenth century?
What, for Hobbes grounds political obligation?
Political Issue: Media treatment towards Taiwan's latest call for cross straits dialogue - conciliatory or confrontational?
Why do so few Americans vote? Do American voters make highly individualised choices or are there any regularities in voting behaviour that can be observed? Illustrate your answer with some references to 2004 Presidential elections.
Produce a 1500-2000 word review of the theories and approaches that you have studied. The review should be personal, explaining which of the theories and approaches you feel are the most efficacious for a student of world politics. Feel free to be eclectic if that's what you think is the best approach. You will also need to explain what you think are the main failings of those theories and approaches that you reject.
'Find a form of association that defends and protects the person and goods of each associate with all the common force and by means of which each one, uniting with all, nevertheless obeys only himself and remains as free as before.' An examination of Rousseau's fundamental problem and his solution to it.
What is the more convincing hypothesis - the "China Threat" or the "Peaceful rise of China"?
Food Creates National Cleavages More Than Unites Them.
On Capital Punishment
Threat of Islam or threat to Islam? Critically assess the conflict between Islam and the West.
Transcending Victimhood: A Critical Analysis of Women in Ethnic Conflict
Understanding the Dynamics of Political Culture and Regime Stability: Crucial to Achieving Sustainable Political Rule
European Press Coverage of the Merkel-Schroeder Struggle: Striving to Widen the Scope of Media Analysis
Realism, Liberalism and Marxism: An Unnecessary Antagonism
The Feminist Contribution to Political Thought: A Ground-Breaking Challenge
The Rise of Transnational Actors: Towards the Creation of a "New World Order"?
The Fall of China and the Rise of the West: Reflecting Democracy's Triumph over Autocracy?
The Transformation of the Music Industry: A Move to Technology and Perfect Competition
The Essence of Political Power
Escaping from Cynicism in Interstate Relations: A Review of World Views on International Politics
Press Coverage of the Japan-China Conflict: Deepening the Countries' Mutual Hostilities?
Globalisation in Today's World: A Recipe for Destruction or a Force for Peace?
Nationalism: a Weakening Ideology or an Enduringly Potent Political Force?
At a Crossroads Between Monopoly and Competition: The Critical State of Today's Music Industry
Douglass North's Theory of Institutions: Key to Understanding Underdevelopment Today?
Divergence Big Time in Twentieth Century Economic Growth: Dooming Neoclassical Predictions of Future Convergence?
Can sociologists make use of official statistics or should they seek to generate their own?
What are ethical problems of observational research as compared with survey research?
What arguments do you think may be given for or against democracy?
What do you understand by the term 'charisma'?
Why did Hua Guofeng fail to hold on to power?
How can Simmel describe life in a modern metropolis as both more impersonal and more individualistic than in pre-modern society?
THE ENGLISH LAW ON VICARIOUS LIABILITY IS THE BEST COMPROMISE WHICH COULD HAVE BEEN REACHED BETWEEN THE NEEDS OF TORT VICTIMS FOR COMPENSATION AND THE FREEDOM OF BUSINESSES TO OPERATE WITHOUT EXCESSIVE BURDENS.
'Patriarchy was more secure on paper than in practice.' Discuss.
'The people had no role to play in politics'. Discuss.
To what extent did the religion practiced by the Catholic laity change in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries?
'Braudel betrayed the Annales tradition.' Discuss.
What part did the factors outlined in Weber's Protestant Ethic play in explaining the divergent economic development of Western and Eastern civilisations
Why is Keynes often seen as continuing the 'classical political economy' tradition, rather than fitting within the neo-classical economics tradition?
Critically assess the doctrine of intention to create legal relations in the light of the above statement and relevant legal developments.
Supporting your argument with detailed examples, identify and explore which of the movements we have covered on the course has made the greatest contribution to innovations in performance.
Compare and contrast the way Ibsen and Strindberg treat destructive patterns of interaction in their work, commenting on the relative importance attached to free will and determinism, and showing how visual methods are used to communicate the author's vision.
What are the Distinguishing Features of Grotowski's 'poor' theatre?
The Social Construction Of Black Masculinity Necessarily Manifests Contradictory Experiences. Critically Discuss.
Foucault's writings went a long way towards challenging the presumption that in the victorian period 'On the subject of sex, silence became the rule' (Foucault). Explain and evaluate Foucault's views on victorian sexual repression.
Was There The Development Of A Tory Party Between 1806 and 1827?
Medical euthanasia should not be tolerated or legitimised for the simple reason that conduct designed to bring about the end of the life is the antithesis of proper medicine. Discuss.
Are Modern Psychologists Still Logical Positivists?
How the diversity of values, powers and opportunities can influence clinical decision making among doctors and their patients focusing on how stereotyping is responsible for racial and ethnic inequalities
Health in the Community
Is there a role for induction in science?
How and why do UK organisations seek flexibility in labour use? What constraints do they face in practice?
'Perdition is more likely than resurgence'.(Metcalf 2005:115).Is the decline in collective bargaining in the UK now irreversible?
What are the main features of Simmel's theory of modernity?
Are all forms of art part of the 'culture industry'?
There are no parallels in life to the concentration camps. Its horror can never be fully embraced by the imagination for the very reason it stands outside of life and death. Discuss
Did the Death Camps Introduce a New Principle into Modern Political Life?
In what sense might Hobbes' Leviathan be considered as a modern state?
What factors led to the idea that there could be a science of society?
What Are 'Housing Classes'? Do They Help Us Theorise Ethnic Differentials?
The Social Division between Man as 'Breadwinner' and Woman as 'Homemaker' is a Product of Modern Society ?
What Are The Distinctive Features Of 'Modern Societies'?
Taylorism was a new form of relationship between employer and employee, introduced because of the development of the large capitalist corporation. Discuss.
GM foods - the dangers
What are health inequalities and why do some social groups have poorer health than others? What role can doctors play in addressing inequalities in health and how effective are they likely to be?
South Africa's Truth and Reconciliation Commission failed in its main aims. Discuss.
Explain the Law of One Price and Purchasing Power Parity Hypothesis and discuss both their economic and empirical relevance. Illustrate using examples
Which early infant abilities and preferences might facilitate later language development?
'Evolutionary psychology provides a single unifying starting point for understanding why we think as we do today.' Archer (2001). Discuss.
How can psychologists best use qualitative methods in research?
What are the advantages and disadvantages of stage models of cognitive development?
Kleinwort Benson Ltd. v Lincoln City Council [1998] 4
There is no need for the doctrine of privity: the doctrine of consideration performs the same function. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this statement and why?
How does sensation become perception?
Critically discuss research on the verbal and non-verbal correlates of lying and comment on the prospects for reliable detection.
Critically examine how cosmopolitan ideas approach the ethical and political challenges of contemporary international relations.
Is the realist critique of liberal internationalism a sound one?
A critical examination of the contribution of foreign aid to the alleviation of world poverty in the context of the consequences of globalisation
An Assessment of the Applicability of the Concept of Cosmopolitan Democracy to the EU
Moral Pluralism or Universalism? A Critical Interrogation of the Debates in IR Theory
Why do MNCs set up subsidiaries abroad? Explain your answer with examples.
How well did British Industry respond to foreign competition before 1914? Would performance have been better if entrepreneurs had been quicker to adopt new technology?
What were the major changes in the international economy after 1914? Why did the Gold Standard work well before 1914 but not in the interwar period?
Watching the governments of the euro zone dealing with its stability and growth pact is a little like watching an escapologist struggling free from a tight knot of rope (The Economist, 17 July 2003)
Why has there been a proliferation of financial crises since the 1970s? How culpable is the IMF?
How well did British services adjust to the changed economic climate of the interwar period? Was the response better in sectors sheltered from international competition?
What were the major institutional changes in British agriculture from 1700-1850? Did these bring about changes in technology?
What was the economic significance of the reduction in transport costs during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries? Were the railways more important than the canals or the turnpike trusts?
What factors affect the extent to which monopoly is associated with inefficient resource allocation?
To what extent should policy be used to stabilise the economy? Discuss with examples from the UK
1. Why is quality important to EHL? (20% of the marks) 2. What are the underlying causes of the quality problems at EHL? (40% of the marks) 3.What steps would you advise Paul Stone to take to improve quality performance at EHL? (40% of the marks)
'Conflict is always a consideration in Managing Employment Relations (MER)'. Critically assess this statement in relation to different perspectives on the employment relationship and in relation to sectoral, labour force and unionisation issues
Critically discuss the extent to which group processes influence individual behaviour and group performance. In your answer, draw on theories and concepts from across the module, and illustrate your views with examples.
'Business strategies demand discipline in the execution of long-term strategic plans and flexibility to address emergent changes'. Discuss. Explain which one of the two features is more critical in your view.
Explain and discuss the view that when oil prices rise, unemployment will follow. Use an aggreagate supply and demand model to illustrate your answer.
Explain the idea of the 'money multiplier'. How may the central bank use it in conducting its central policy?
Buying vs Renting a Home
Why did Brazil's GDP growth slowdown in 2001? Assess the strength of the recovery after 2002 and the prospects for 2005 in the light of oil price increases in 2004. How has the fall of the US dollar impacted the Brazilian economy? To what extent is Brazil over-dependent on the economic performance of the US?
-Account for the Rise of Management-
To what extent does the FN represent a failure of the mainstream political parties of the Left and Right
Discuss the economic and social implications of EU enlargement eastwards: would a simple free trade agreement with central-eastern European countries have been a better option?
Produce a critical evaluation of the impact of the judicial decisions of the late Lord Denning MR on the rights of persons in residential occupation.
To what extent have Government ambitions for the Anti-Social Behaviour Order been fulfilled, taking into account both the experience of operating this procedure nationally and also local experience
The gender neutrality of law is a myth. Discuss.
The regulatory scheme initiated under the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act 1990 is in need of Review Discuss.
The Commission is organised on the pattern of a government. K.P.E. Lasok Law and Institutions of the European Union (2001) at 235. Is it accurate to describe the Commission as the government of the EU?
Critically evaluate the evolution of EC Environmental Law and Policy
What best explains people's willingness to work hard?
Why has it proved so difficult to obtain convictions for rape?
Choose and attach to your essay a newspaper article published in the past two years that relates to the sexual attitudes or debates studied in this course. Examples might be an article on legislation on the age of consent, a film or book review, a report of a rape trial or on the policing of prostitution. Write an essay contextualising the article in light of your coursework. For instance, you could identify the debates behind the article, identify assumptions it takes for granted, critique or support the authors' perspective and/or comment on the adequacy of its approach.
Is motherhood a woman's destiny or the source of her subordination?
Does the Meno show that virtue is teachable?
Neoclassicism, with its emphasis on literary production according to fixed rules, may seem absurdly restricted to modern readers. Can you make a case for it on the basis of your reading?
What is the role of God in the project of the Meditations?
If 'I exist' is a well formed claim, does this undermine the objection to the ontological argument that says that 'exists' is not a predicate?
Consultation is different from negotiation, collective bargaining or joint decision-making. Decision-making remains the responsibility of management (DTI guidance on information and consultation regulations: 2005 4-5). Discuss the form and likely impact of new legal rights to information and consultation
Discuss on which of the following groups with lower activity rate the European employment strategy is most likely to be successful: young workers, elderly workers, female workers.
As Collective Bargaining Becomes Increasingly Devolved To Company Level, Is There Any Longer A Role For Employers' Organisations? Discuss With Reference To Developments In At Least Three European Countries.
Analyse the Function and Importance of Marceline and MÃ©nalque in Andre Gide's The Immoralist
Easy Rider - Analysis of Final Sequence
How may Swing Time be Considered a Turning Point in the Astaire and Rogers Cycle of Films for RKO in the 1930s?
Analyse the Appropriation of Mythic and/or Fairytale Elements in Angela Carter's The Magic Toyshop and Jeanette Winterson's Oranges Are Not The Only Fruit.
'Depth of field is not just a stock in trade of the cameraman like the use of a series of filters or of such-and-such a style of lighting, it is a capital gain in the field of direction - a dialectical step forward in the history of film language.' (André Bazin). Discuss what Bazin means and whether or not you think such a categorical claim is justified.
Detailed Shot Analysis
Analyse and Compare the Representation and Significance of 'Prisons' in Affinity by Sarah Waters and Alias Grace by Margaret Atwood
To what extent is the study of Management scientific? If it is not a science, then what is it?
The failure of the bulk of Mergers and Acquisitions to create shareholder value is accounted primarily by financial considerations such as managerial hubris and the high premium firms pay on average to acquire other companies. Discuss with references to advanced financial industrialized countries with dispersed ownership structures and concentrated ownership structures.
Why should policymakers follow rules, as Kydland and Prescott argued? Compare the relative merits of any two of the following three rules: setting a target for the monetary growth rate; setting a target for the inflation rate; fixing the exchange rate. Illustrate your answer with real-world examples.
Assessment 2
Discuss what computers cannot do
In what sense might Metropolis and Der blaue Engel be considered 'modernist'?
Discuss love in Emma and The Sorrows of Young Werther.
Examine the relation between the supernatural and the real in Hoffmann's Der goldne Topf.
No, Ernest, don't talk about action. It is the last resource of those who know not how to dream. How nearly, whether obliquely or directly, does Oscar Wilde's work approach Ireland?
What, if anything, has membership of a political community in common with membership of a family? Can this tell us anything about our obligations?
What is man's function, according to Aristotle? How is it ethical?
Can functionalism provide a cross-species concept of pain?
If experience is the source of our grasp of the concept of a physical object, then how do we make intelligible to ourselves the idea that such objects may exist unperceived?
Discuss the distinction between the two multiplicities in Time and Free Will. What work is this doing in Bergson's argument for duration?
äWith the progress of globalization, does the national origin of multinational companies have any relevance? Discuss with examples referring to issues such as internal organization, corporate governance, and/or human resources."
Compare and contrast the views about the mind of one ancient Greek thinker (i.e., before 100 BC) and one modern thinker (i.e., after 1500 AD). How do their views, and the differences between them, relate to their distinct historical, religious or intellectual context?
What is attractive about other human beings and why?
Outline the best case you can for a theory of general intelligence. What are the strengths and weaknesses you see in the case you have constructed?
Evolutionary psychology provides a single unifying starting point for understanding why we think and behave as we do today. Archer (2001). Discuss.
Can social psychology and research on prejudice and intergroup relations offer any insights into, or hopes for improvement of, contemporary political violence and terrorism?
Why did Relations with Britain Deteriorate in the 18th Century?
Were Proletarian Factory Workers less likely than Artisans to Participate in Industrial and Political Militancy - and if so, why?
Was the Italian Labour Unrest of 1919-20 defeated more because of divisions on the left than because of the fascist counter-offensive?
What Reasons were there for Growing Radicalism in the Russian Labour Movement in the Years Before 1914?
Why Did the Political Accommodation between the North and the South Break Down in the 1850's?
What Were the Reasons For the English, Spanish, French, and Dutch Colonising North America?
To What Extent are the Grand Theories of Integration Useful Tools for Analysing European Union Policymaking?
Should Surfers be Fed? A Critical Examination of Arguments for and Against Unconditional Basic Income.
Are there 'Two Concepts of Liberty'? Distinguish Some Different Contrasts which have been made between Positive and Negative Liberty.
To what Extent has the EU Contributed to Global Environmental Protection?
What was to Blame for the Failure of the Great Leap Forward?
Was Cortés' leadership the key to the Spanish conquest of Mexico?
How accurate is the description of the Inca state as a "socialist empire"?
'Madame de Pompadour was popular in Versailles, unpopular in Paris.' Discuss.
Discuss the implications for women, in gender and class terms, of the rise of medicine as a profession.
Outline the conceptual distinctions Weber made between 'class', 'status' and 'power'. Are these useful in practice?
Discuss and evaluate the effectiveness of social responses to AIDS, including those of governments, voluntary agencies and individuals, in Britain and other parts of the world.
Discuss and evaluate, with the use of examples, the extent to which social control has become a prime function of modern medicine.
What are the consequences of 'eating badly' and whose responsibility is it if people do?
Critically examine the extent to which adding micro-nutrients (vitamins and minerals) is an appropriate response to nutritional problems, using examples to illustrate your argument.
Private/independent and state schools are completely different (and separate) entities. Critically discuss.
What conclusions should one draw about the 'self' from Goffman's work?
European women both challenged and supported the Empire-building project. Discuss.
Discuss the ways in which the category 'middle class' emerged in significance in the period 1780 - 1840.
Examine the extent to which the American eugenics movement can be said to have influenced German racial hygiene, 1900-1945.
Should historians stress the similarities between North and South in the antebellum [i.e. pre-Civil War] period, or the differences?
Was it racism or other economic factors that caused the enslavement of Africans in colonial North America?
Who are the 'winners' and the 'losers' in the modern, global food system?
With particular reference to the work of Jacques-Louis David, how were the principles of the French Revolution anticipated, reflected and promoted in French painting, 1784-1794?
Who exchanged what, and with what effects, in the Columbian Exchange?
The Picture of Dorian Gray is a book about degeneration. Discuss.
The extent to which companies should or should not impose their corporate brands globally
Democracy and Legitimacy in the European Union: Is There a Crisis?
Containment or Engagement? A Critical Analysis of Approaches towards the North Korea Nuclear Crisis
Multi-Level Governance fails to enhance our Appreciation of the European Union's Complex Policy. A Critique
Japanese Imperialism in East Asia: Obstacle or Facilitator for Contemporary Regional Cooperation?
Order, Justice and Change in International Politics: The Contribution of Hedley Bull
'IN THE FULLNESS OF TIME, HISTORY WILL RECORD THE GREATNESS OF COLLINS AND IT WILL BE RECORDED AT MY EXPENSE'. To What Extent Has This Statement, Made By de Valera in 1966, Been Substantiated By Recent Historiography on Michael Collins and Eamon de Valera?
TO WHAT EXTENT WERE LENIN'S POLICIES GUIDED BY A CONSCIOUS STRATEGY FOR THE TRANSITION TO SOCIALISM BETWEEN 1917 &amp; 1921?
East Asian Development Models: A Critical Analysis of the Developmental State and the Competition State
The Theories of Developmental States
Essay : There is more to fear from computer terrorism than Bombs
In attempting to write about Robert Musil's encyclopedic novel The Man Without Qualities
In his Encyclopaedia of the Philosophical Sciences, Hegel famously said: "To seek to know before we know is as absurd as the wise resolution of Scholasticus, not to venture into the water until he had learned to swim"
On Husserl's Phenomenological Reduction and Metaphysical Idealism
One does not only wish to be understood when one writes; one wishes just as surely not to be understood. - GS §381
Assignment 1, Health inequalities essay.
HIV/AIDS and stigma
The Bourbon reforms created the basis for nationalism and nation states in Spanish America
Did Brazilian colonial society deny the humanity of slaves?
How can we explain the Salem witchcraft episode of 1692?
How important is the political cult of the dead in nation building?
Are there two systems of reasoning? Make reference to Sloman and Stanovich &amp; West.
Discuss the Reliability and Validity of Qualitative Research Methods
Imagine you are designing a curriculum for primary school science classes. Consider how research in cognitive development could help you decide which concepts were taught and when.
What lessons should criminal justice and law enforcement learn from the bio-behavioural account of antisocial personality disorder?
In order to exam whether 'A happy worker is a productive worker'
In the literature, academics hold different views of what is happening in the world economy
During last decade there has been a growing interest in the topic of employee participation and involvement
What caused the Wars of Independence?
Compare and contrast the political allegiances of the working class in Perón's Argentina and Allende's Chile.
How far does the Downs model of voting help to explain the result of the British General Election of 2005?
Is Increased Globalisation a Good Thing?
Theories of World Politics
Business strategies demand discipline in the execution of long-term strategic plans and flexibility to address emergent changes. Discuss. Explain which one of two features is more critical in your view.
The resources used in small firms are influential to the success or failure of the business.
The nature of human motivation is a complex and puzzling mystery.
The effect of group processes on individuals and work teams directly influences the overall output and performance in a business.
The Decline in popular participation in Britain highlights the changing nature and focus of democratic participation in Britain today". Discuss.
In US politics, money is everything. Discuss.
How Powerful is the President of the United States?
An Analysis of the Conflict over Water Resources in Central Asia.
Why did turnout decline substantially between the British general elections of 1997 and 2001 and recover little in 2005? Why is there such a strong contrast between the turnout of the youngest and oldest cohorts of voters?
In what ways have feminists challenged conventional thinking about politics?
'A gets B to do something he or she would not otherwise do' Does this sum up the essence of political power?
Aid Conditionality is necessary but problematic Discuss with Examples.
Do the economic benefits of structural adjustment outweigh the socio-political costs? Discuss with at least 2 examples
Does Rousseau's Social Contract leave us as free as before?
'Compare the political thought of Hobbes and Locke on the state of nature'
The fair delivery of high standard health care has been the objective of the National Health Service (NHS) since its establishment in 1948
What best describes people's willingness to work hard?
Entrepreneurship
Compare and contrast European-Amerindian encounters in early sixteenth-century Mexico with those of seventeenth century North America.
Why did Britain lose the American Revolutionary War?
Account for the defeat of the confederacy.
What factors accounted for the success of the Spanish conquest of the Aztec and Inca empires?
Examine the portrayal of femininity in one short story
Why did the 'Affluent Society' emerge after World War II?
Why did Christianity have such a minimal impact on the lives of slaves by 1775?
The New Deal represented more a programme of social compromise than social change Discuss.
Sugar brought a social as well as an agricultural revolution to the Caribbean. Discuss.
How much was immigrant culture affected by the realities of life in Guyana and the norms of other racial groups present in Guyana between 1838 and 1905?
Is social capital an analytically useful concept in relation to development?
A critical analysis of the rise of the Brazilian Landless Movement as a response to Structural Adjustment Programmes during the 1990s
'The only thing worse than being exploited by global capital is not being exploited by global capital'. Discuss
A critical analysis of the role of the rating agencies in the politics of global finance
The case for and against the proposed introduction of Identity Cards in the UK
First of all, the question "Should digital property be given the same protections as physical property?" is a bit misleading.
Are Socrates views on pleasures in the Protagoras and the Gorgias compatible?
In connection with the Second Meditation, Hobbes said it was possible that something that thinks should be something corporeal. Do Descartes' arguments succeed in ruling this possibility out?
Explain why Quine's paradox: '"yields a falsehood when appended to its own quotation" yields a falsehood when appended to its own quotation' is a paradox. Compare and contrast Quine's paradox with the Liar paradox and discuss the significance of any differences.
If 'I exist' is a well formed claim, does this undermine the objection to the ontological argument that says that 'exist' is not a predicate?
Critically consider the 'Method of Doubt' as a means of beginning philosophy
Monopoly And Resource Allocation
Stabilisation Policy
Corporate Dividends and Stock Repurchases
Individual Assignment For Critical Issues In IS Research and Practice
Management Information Strategies and the SME
What is Locke's account of the difference between knowledge and judgement? Is his account defensible?
If The Way Of Truth Is True Why Does Parmenides Write The Way Of Seeming?
What does Descartes mean by a 'real distinction between mind and body'? How does his argument for the real distinction work?
Mao only left one positive legacy for China: He convinced not only the people but also other party leaders that communism didn't work. Discuss.
Locke asked 'Why should men who were afraid of polecats and foxes arrange to be devoured by lions?' Would Hobbes have an answer?
Does China disprove the popular understanding that economic liberalisation inevitably leads to political liberalisation?
When it comes to intra-regional economic cooperation, East Asian countries have never escaped the position of latecomers.
Before NAFTA, it was widely believed that market integration was likely between the countries equally developed and that a gap in economic development would be an obstacle to successful integration.
This essay aims at the assessment of the explanatory utility of liberal IPE and the benefit of free trade in explaining globalisation.
An old-fashioned debate between free trade and protectionism is recently re-emerging in the form of wrangling between multilateralism and bilateralism.
How successful is Socrates' attempt in the Republic to prove that justice pays the practitioner better than injustice?
Assess the importance of Logos in Heraclitus' thought
Outline Jackson's 'knowledge argument' and evaluate one argument with which a physicalist might respond
Does the idea of a mind presuppose that of a person? Explain and discuss with reference to Descartes and Strawson.
Can you swap bodies with someone else?
Set out and assess Berkeley's objections to Locke's appeal to the notion of resemblance in the account of our perception of mind-independent physical things.
Should morality be private?
What is an indexical? What special problems do indexicals create for a theory of sense?
How significantly does Burke's account of the sublime differ from that of Kant's?
Why would a company choose to enter an international joint venture? What advantages does this offer over other modes of international expansion? Given the high 'failure' rate of international joint ventures, what can be done to increase the likelihood of a successful outcome? Use examples throughout.
What is the Philips Curve? Explain why critics believe the relationship no longer holds.
Explain the theoretical differences between the Solow and the Endogenous Growth models. What are their implications for the distribution of income levels across the world? Discuss the applicability of each model for different real-world economic areas or possible scenarios.
What do Classical, Keynesian and New Keynesian models imply for the aggregate supply relationship? What impact can monetary and fiscal policy have in these models?
Explain the pros and contras of a rule that sets limits on budget deficits and debt levels of different government within a given currency area. Illustrate your answer using real-world examples.
Critically assess Locke's view that political authority rests on the consent of the governed.
To what degree have political parties regained their importance in US politics?
What effects did the 1930s have on Black Americans?
Why was the Great Depression so severe?
To what extent can a president's success be measured by his popularity?
Could there be a World that is Physically Identical to ours, but in which Consciousness does not Exist? Explain and Discuss the role that the Question plays In Kripke's Argument.
Transcendence and Creation
How Can it be Decided What a Human Right Is?
What is the Private Language Argument? What are its implications for the Cartesian Subject?
Hume Gives Two Definitions of Cause in the Treatise. Say How These Definitions Differ From One Another. Do You Think We can Accept Them Both?
Is Self-Reference the Cause of the Liar Paradox?
Is Protagoras' Moral Relativism Equivalent to Modern Ethical Relativism?
In What Way, If Any, Is 'pain is c-fibre stimulation' Different From 'heat is molecular motion'? Discuss With Reference to Kripke's Argument
Does Morality Need Religion?
Is Bowlby's concept of attachment theory still relevant for studying social development?
Law and the International Business Environment
What were the causes and consequences of the divisions that emerged in Black politics during the 1960's?
Assess and Evaluate the Contribution made by Che Guevara to the Insurrectionary phase of the Cuban Revolution
Did Racism lead to Slavery or the reverse?
'Writing is an act of love; in writing is coherence and through writing comes release from the bonds of a generation of pain and loathing'.
How and why did Presidential Reconstruction fail?
Is the Simplicity of a Theory any Guide to its Truth?
Are There Satisfactory Criteria For Separating Science From Non-Science?
Explain the distinction between the validity of an argument and the truth of its conclusions, and discuss the importance of this distinction both for mathematics and for experimental science.
Humanitarian intervention is a subject on which there is significant debate regarding both the substance of current law, and the normative question of what the law should be. Discuss.
Discuss: "Custom is now of limited importance as a source of International Law."
This essay will explore the different concepts pertaining to legal parentage and parental responsibility in family law; focusing on how legal parentage is determined in common law and following the enactment of the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act 1990 (HFEA 1990).
Discuss the significance of EU citizenship with particular reference Case C-209/03 R (on the application of Bidar) v Ealing LBC [2005] 2 WLR 1078.
This essay will explore the rule against bias; nemo judex in causa sua in the context of the given scenario.
'Competition law is a pointless tool in the hands of competition authorities if it is not backed by stringent powers of enforcement.'
Without being overly presumptuous it can surely be asserted that Judaeo-Christian theology has shaped the underlying structure of the laws of Western Civilization.
Assess the usefulness of Charles Dickens's Bleak House in interpreting the law, practice, institutions and personnel involved in the work of the old Court of Chancery (1800-1875).
Human rights atrocities have become a focal point in this global era through the many egregious acts committed by individuals over the past few decades.
What benefits are there to tracing long term processes of social change?
How would you describe the relationship between science and society in a democracy: compatible or oppositional?
What were the class and gender implications of the rise of professional medicine? Discuss in relation to obstetrics and childbirth and women's madness.
Analyse the ways in which the image of the 'street waif' was constructed and to what intent.
Why did de Tocqueville attach so much importance to associations?
To what extent did relations with the Soviet Union and American Left shape the character of the Mexican Revolution?
The Commission is Organised on the Pattern of a Government (K. P. E. Lasok - "Law and Institutions of the European Union" (2001) at 235). Is it Accurate to Describe the Commission as the Government of the EU?
Environmental Law is now a specific area of policy-making in the EU. Discuss with reference to specific legal principles adopted in this area.
Is There A Global Economy and, If So, Who Controls It?
Are There Communities in Cyberspace?
How Do the Media Contribute to Changes in Time and Space?
The 'passionlessness' debate
Constantin von Neurath (1873-1956)
The rise and fall of the Third Reich
Leopold von Ranke (1795-1886)
Value and Labour: the Sociological Significance of Labor Theory of Value
An Alternative Interpretation of Hobbes's State of Nature
Examine the role of community-based learning in promoting adult education with reference to relevant case studies
How does informal learning operate in a learning organisation?
It has been a governing principle of much discourse that lifelong learning is necessary for - 'successful' competitive economics as we move towards the twenty-first century Edwards, 1997:174)
Outline the relationship between theory, research and practice
Can e-learning widen participation in the development of today's employment skills? Illustrate your answer with a critical analysis of a case study.
To what extent are holistic healing systems alternative or complementary to 'scientific' medicine?
What accounts for the differences in offending between girls and boys?
What considerations frame debates around delinquency among girls?
Hebdige was a member of the Centre for Contemporary Cultural Studies, University of Birmingham (CCCs) during the 1970s, who challenged the entrenched view of youth as trouble or in trouble
Compare the Political and Social Contributions of José Gaspar Rodríguez de Francia and Rafael Carrera in their Attempts to Achieve Stability in their Countries
Examine the function of magic in Gabriel Garcia Marquez's 'One Hundred Years of Solitude'
Martin Luther King and Fidel Castro: A Comparison
Consider the growth in popular resistance to British rule before Independence with particular reference to Massachusetts
Examine the Realities of Travel by both Sea and Land faced by Americans who Journeyed to California during the Gold Rush.
Why did the Aztecs Practice Human Sacrifice?
How hard were the 'Hard Times' of the Great Depression
John F. Kennedy: A bad President, with good PR?
Why is Carl Becker such a Significant Figure In the history of American Historical Writing?
George Green: An Essay on the Application of Mathematical Analysis to the Theories of Electricity and Magnetism
Does Rawls's conception of "justice as fairness" provide a superior alternative to utilitarian conceptions of justice?
The primary goal of a course on engineering ethics ought to be to have students master the standards of professional conduct specified in the major engineering codes of ethics.
The Effect of Successful Information Management on Corporate Governance
The Dawn of the Internet Age
In the Search of Political Leaders - A Review of the Bureaucratic Governance of Hong Kong under the Political Thoughts of Max Weber
A Comparison Between "Asylums: Essays on the Social Situation of Mental Patients" by Erving Goffman; and "Critical Realist Ethnography: The Case of Racism and Professionalism in a Medical Setting" by Sam Porter.
The proper development of medical science and its potential to alleviate human misery has been inhibited by the imposition of legal regulation on new medical technologies. Discuss.
Post Module Assignment
Writing Exercise: What Makes a Professional Engineer?
Should the World Bank be reformed or abolished?
Globalisation and Global Governance
Refugees and the principle of Burden-Sharing
Child Soldiers and International Humanitarian Law
Female Genital Mutilation and the Efficacy of International Human Rights Law
Second Reflective Piece
This laboratory session was regarding the construction, working and use of pneumatic circuits and its limitations
Geotechnical Interpretative Report
How 'lay' are lay concepts of health and illness?
Critically explore the relationship between ethnicity and mental illness.
The Royal Commission on Criminal Justice (1993) considered it important that the prosecutor in England and Wales should remain separate, and therefore independent, from the police investigation. French and German prosecutors are involved in the pre-trial phase and the alternative disposal of cases.
Choice of Law Rules and Laws Not Deriving from a Sovereign State
Organ transplants are over-regulated. Discuss.
Discuss critically whether or not choice of law rules may refer to a system of law that does not derive from the sovereign power of a state, e.g. Shariah or UNIDROIT Principles of International Commercial Contracts. Make reference to case law and the academic discussion.
Evaluate the EC treatment of the anti-competitive effects of conglomerate mergers. You should include in your discussion the ECJ decision in EC v Tetra Laval Case C-12/03 P (2005).
How, and how successfully was order maintained in early modern London?
Analyse the relationship between prices and theft prosecutions in Elizabethan and Jacobean England.
Roy Porter describes private asylums as both 'running sores of scandal' and 'sites of therapeutic innovation.' Do you agree with this dual imagery?
Could an argument be made that mental illness is socially constructed with respect to hysteria or neurasthenia?
Can cognitive approaches add to our understanding of the conditions (if any) under which money makes people happy?
Roszak (2001) thinks we're damaging the living systems of the planet while Lomborg (2001) believes such claims are exaggerated. Can psychologists contribute anything to this debate?
To what extent are the concepts of 'temporal discounting' and 'risk aversion' useful outside the laboratory?
What movements of simple objects make us think that they are alive?
A Reinterpretation of Arendt's Concepts of Labor, Work and Action
Science and Religion in Weber's Disenchanted World
The Use of Communication and Meetings in Industry
The Use of HPLC in Industry
The Use of LCMS in Industry
The Search for the "Perfect Penicillin"
Microwave assisted chemistry in organic synthesis and its advantages over conventional heating
In what sense does our experience of the sublime demonstrate the supremacy of our rational nature, according to Kant?
Does Sartre's conception of the body overcome mind/body dualism?
What is N's conception of autonomy and how does it differ from Kant's?
What is 'will' for Schopenhauer and how coherent is his account of it?
What impact did the hunger strikes in 1981 have on the politics of Northern Ireland?
What have been the major historiographical arguments about China's 'tribute system'?
'...money is much overrated,...and equalising distribution of income and wealth addresses only one of many things that matter' (Phillips, 2004)
What makes some new religious movements controversial?
Why did the anti-poll tax demonstration that became disorderly in London in 1990 give rise to sociological questions about strategies for policing large protests?
Is self-love the only motivation for action that Adam Smith recognizes?
Due process safeguards ought to be the cornerstone of police interrogative procedures. However, recent reforms show that the opinion "suspects are criminals and are not worthy of more than minimal safeguards" is not as outdated as we may think.
Compare the nature and scope of the cases reported in the Chancery Division Reports for any year between 1950 and 1970 inclusive with those reported for any year between 2000 and 2005 inclusive, reflecting, for example, on changes in judicial attitudes over the intervening period.
To what extent do the disclosure rules compromise the defendant's right to a fair trial?
Should 'insider dealing' be a criminal offence? Should other legal measures in respect of such conduct be introduced, either instead of, or in addition to, criminal justice provisions?
To date, corporate governance reforms (in the UK) have relied heavily on institutional investors and non-executive directors as enforcers of good corporate practice. Such mechanisms are inadequate to ensure effective corporate governance and other, especially statutory, forms of intervention are required. Discuss.
A discussion regarding the statement that: "The extent to which a monopoly induces economic efficiency depends, among other things, upon factors such as: (i) Vertical integration in the market, (ii) Horizontal market contestability, (iii) Technology, (iv) The role of advertising and (v) Market demand elasticity."
What is the Phillips Curve? Explain why critics believe the ratio no longer holds.
Was the Collapse of the Bretton Woods System Inevitable? And what were its long-run Consequences?
To What Extent is 'New Institutionalism' useful when analysing E.U Processes? (Do Institutions really Matter?)
How are poor household's experiences of food shaped by their social, economic, or personal experience?
Examine the evidence on how the food standards agency in the UK is structured and works in relation to its aims and objectives. What has it done/would it need to do to ensure that consumers trust it more than they did MAFF?
Access Foucault's contribution to our understanding of sexuality
Is 'race' just another term for ethnicity? Discuss
In what ways can women's movements transcend differences such as class and ethnicity, in order to work together for social change? Show awareness of specific cultural and historical contexts when using evidence from a particular country
Globally women continue to shoulder the major burden of domestic and care work in the household. How can this phenomenon be explained?
Right to Same-Sex Marriage A Panacea for all problems of Gays, Lesbians, Bisexuals and Transsexuals (LGBTs)?
Re-examining 'Battered Woman Syndrome': Construction of Gendered Divisions in Law and the idea of 'Provocation' as Partial Defence to Murder in Domestic Violence Cases
Women's Rights and Religious Rights: Can the Twain Ever Meet?
What light does Bury's (1982) notion of 'biographical disruption' shed on the meaning and experience of chronic illness?
Ethical dilemmas have been reconfigured as the result of the widespread use of medical technology, how should society respond?
Present your reading of one still photograph, published or unpublished, bringing to bear what you have learnt about visual cultures and visual analysis, and paying particular attention to its production, composition and intended audience
How does Kant's Theory of Freedom differ from Hume's?
A critical analysis of the development of the sublime in Burke, Kant and Schopenhauer
Do you agree with Schopehauer that Compassion is the only genuine and moral motive of action?
An analysis of Nietzsche on compassion in comparison to Schopenhauer
3. C. Compare the gender (race/class) politics of a policy debate that takes place in two newspapers and is relevant to one of the policy areas discussed in this module.
Discuss the Changing Fortunes of the British National Party
Discuss the Main Causes of the 'Urban Riots' in 1980s Britain?
Why did the Swedish left succeed in creating a lasting Welfare Settlement in the 1930s while the British left did not achieve the same goal until the late 1940s?
What major differences can we observe between the Nazi and New Deal Social Policy during the 1930s?
Discuss the Importance of Working-Class Pressure in the Development of State Policies to overcome Mass Unemployment in the 1930s
THE ABSENCE OF DEFINITION OF TERRORISM AND TERRORISTS IN IHL AND THE LEGAL IMPLICATIONS
Can we think nature's rights outside the anthropocentric outlook of the dominant discourse of human rights?
Four propositions to improve the efficiency of alternative globalization movements and civil society organizations
THE REPARATIONS FOR DESCENDANTS OF SLAVES AND FOR THE RACIST ASPECTS OF COLONIZATION
Significance and implications of the securitization of the environment in the construction of global security as a discourse
THE BRAIN DRAIN AS THE REPRODUCTION OF A COLONIAL PATTERN OF EXPLOITATION
2. 'There is no room for the introduction of "contributory negligence" on the part of claimants into the realm of liability of trustees for breach of their duty of care'. Discuss.
1. In what circumstances is the judiciary prepared to relax the doctrine of the separate legal personality of a company? Is the current legal situation satisfactory from a policy point of view, particularly in the light of the group structure of many modern businesses?
5. 'Corporate social responsibility sounds fine in theory, but is unworkable in practice.' Discuss.
4. Whereas the English abortion debate has been dominated by the question of whether or not abortion should ever be justified in law, the more difficult moral questions arise in distinguishing circumstances in which abortion should not be permitted from those in which it should. Discuss.
1. Discuss critically whether or not choice of law rules may refer to a system of law that does not derive from the sovereign power of a state, e.g. Shariah or UNIDROIT Principles of International Commercial Contracts. Make reference to case law and the academic discussion.
How can the practice of law support justice?
With reference to Fortescue and other commentators of the medieval and early modern period, assess the importance of Judaeo-Christian theology to the development of both the common law and the secular legal profession.
The right to silence; myth or reality? Discuss
The contribution of Feminist theory over mainstream theories of International Relations to a better understanding of the field of International Relations
Critically examine the claim that feminist theory offers a better understanding of international relations than that provided by the established theories of international relations.
Globalisation as a neo-colonial move: A dependency analysis
The Impact of the "war on terror" on US hegemony in East Asia
An investigation of the ways in which human rights are conceived by international relations theory.
A Deafening Silence: the Minority Rights of the Anglophones of Quebec
Bondage (of a) Sex: the Construction of Women's Sexuality, the HIV/AIDS virus and the Oppression of Women
Analyse the Spanish Civil War poetry of Pablo Neruda and/or César Vallejo.
Examine Alfonsina Storni's treatment of gender.
Infant Behavioural Problems
To what extent do women's NGOs empower third world women?
Discuss the proposition that the concept of gender is central to the project of globalisation
Women and Environmental Sustainability: A Human Rights Approach to Millennium Development Goal 7
'The essence of the subject of international taxation is the issue of whether and, to what extent, a country has the right to tax an individual or a company.' [Miller and Oats, Principles of International Taxation, p. 20] Discuss.
The UK is increasingly becoming a global centre for hedge funds. Is the current system of financial regulation adequate to protect as to financial crisis? Discuss.
According to Dickens, writers should 'avoid painful and disagreeable endings; the public likes everything pleasant.' How far do you feel the closures of Victorian texts manage to accommodate the disagreeable?
How have any two writers that you have read conceived of social identity through the politics of space and/or place?
How do Victorian regional novelists use landscape to emphasise and articulate the themes present in their work?
Manfred desires "Forgetfulness...of that which is within me." With reference to at least two texts on the course, discuss the ways in which Gothic writing explores the category of subjectivity in the Romantic era.
An analysis of how the traditional values and beliefs of the rural community within George Eliot's Adam Bede create outsiders.
Mansfield Park sublimates the agonies of Caribbean existence to a mere half-dozen passing references to Antigua. (Edward Said.) To what extent do you think the West Indies is a sublimated or, alternatively, a disruptive space within Romantic writing?
Men make their own history. (C.L.R. James) Discuss the ways in which your selected texts explore the negotiation between oppression and revolution in slavery.
What is meant by the term "human - wildlife conflict?" Is this a phenomenon that only occurs within the tropical regions of the world? Give examples to illustrate your answer.
Africa was the cradle of humanity. Discuss using fossil, genetic and archaeological evidence.
What continuities can one trace between nineteenth century anthropology and subsequent developments in the twentieth century?
Discuss the handling of the discourses of religion and the effects of religious and ethical change in the Victorian period
Using any critical/theoretical ideas that you have encountered so far on this module explore the continuities or discontinuities between any two texts you have read on your degree
'Language never merely reflects relationships of power, it is the very terrain in which power is exercised, exchanged, extended and realised.' Consider the ways in which Orwell articulates the relationship between power and language in at least two texts
The construction of gender and gender roles in The Good Soldier by Ford Madox Ford and Mrs Dalloway by Virginia Woolf
Discuss E.M.Forster's preoccupation with connection and his search fulfilment.
Explore Shakespeare's handling of the conventions of tragedy in Othello, and the tragedy of Desdemona
Discuss the representation of women or the treatment of gender in a selection of the texts studied
We should treat all trivial things in life very seriously and all the serious things of life with sincere and studied triviality With reference to at least two Wilde texts discuss the way in which he uses this idea in his writing
Consider the ways in which at least two texts (or group of texts) have attempted to represent the unrepresentable
A close reading of Ibsen's 'Ghosts'
Discursive Written Analysis
Close Reading Assessment: Extract one from Shakespeare's Othello
Which theoretical approach has best helped you 'make sense' of The Waste Land and why?
The Romantic Period is often classed as one of 'Revolutions'. What literary revolutions occur during the period?
With reference to at least two authors, explore the conflict between the public and private 'self' of the Renaissance
Writers that were part of that period of experimentation that is often termed Modernism" seem to have lost faith in narrative. Instead of telling interesting stories, they
(The interpretation of the Bible)
Madness lies in subjugation by the state, but it also lies in the way the state makes us subjects. Discuss the representation of the individual and the state in at least one text that you have read on this module.
Consider the ways in which Orwell articulates the relationship between power and language in at least two texts
'The author's text is only half the story'. In what ways is meaning always mediated through discursive dialogues?
No title
What strategies have any two writers from different historical periods employed to represent the contemporary moment?
How does the text reflect the culture, society, ideas or historical events or combination of these of the time in which it was written? What commentary does the text make upon these issues?
'Women talk: men are silent: that is why I dread women' (Dickinson). How is the question of gender and speech or eloquence rendered in any of the texts?
Discursive written analysis: A comparative analytical commentary on two poems
Which theoretical approach has best helped you 'make sense' of the themes and images in The Waste Land and why?
'Writers that were part of that period of experimentation that is often termed "Modernism" seem to have lost faith in narrative. Instead of telling interesting stories, they
Explore Shakespeare's handling of the conventions of tragedy in Othello, and their relationship to matters of politics and gender in the play
'Some of us are trying to find identities besides the centralised "I". Discuss this quotation with reference to at least two texts that you have studied on this course.'
Extended Comparative Analysis
 
Analyse the evidence of current practice in recruitment and selection in the hospitality and tourism industry and evaluate its appropriateness in relation to achieving "employee fit"
Culinary Taste is an Expression of Social Conditioning
An analysis of coffee shops and existing social inequalities as well as an evaluation of whether or not they add further scope to such inequities
Managerial Features and Approaches to Learning
Compare the 'functionalisms' of Malinowski and Radcliffe-Brown
Consider the view that Gender should be included as one of the core analytical categories in social anthropology.
Discuss the relationship between meat-eating, body shape, brain size and the geographical expansion of the genus Homo
The Dichotomies of Nature-Culture/Nature-Society: A review of the recent critical discussions
Every morning I see a Neanderthal in my shaving mirror (Milford Wolpoff) How closely, if at all, do you think Neanderthals are related to ourselves?
Electronic Distribution in the Travel Trade
Evaluate the extent to which 'good practice' approaches to recruitment and selection are used in the contemporary hospitality industry
According to Telfer (2000:P42) 'if behaviour is to count as genuinely hospitable, it must have an 'appropriate motive'. Evaluate the extent to which the motives of the
Is There A Good Alternative To The Tripartite Theory Of Knowledge
Why Does Anscombe Think We Ought to Abandon the Concepts of Moral Obligation and Duty?
Is Humean Scepticism Preferable to Cartesian Scepticism?
Which, in your opinion, is the most plausible account of meaning?
To What Extent are the Contents of Our Thoughts Determined by the Nature of the Extra-Cranial World?
To What Extent Would You Agree with the Claim that God's Existence can be Proved? Use One of the Arguments for the Existence of God to Illustrate your Answer.
The Central Argument of Plato's Republic Rests to a Great Extent on the Analogy Drawn Between Justice in the Soul and Justice in the State. Is the Analogy Strong Enough to Bear the Weight Plato Places on it?
Analyse the evidence of current practise in recruitment and selection in the hospitality and tourism industry and evaluate its appropriateness in relation to achieving employee "fit".
With reference to relevant literature, discuss the proposal that managing diversity effectively and upholding individual rights has a positive impact on hospitality and tourism organisations.
Using empirical data you have gathered on the leisure sector of the opera and theoretical models of social class, evaluate the extent to which traditional paradigms of
Language in Education, Reference and Research Publishing
The Wiki and its Impact on the Culture of Publishing
Discuss the Processes that affect gene frequencies in a population and result in evolutionary change
Geladas: Cognitive implications for the evolution of human language.
Describe the Diversity of the Earliest Members of the Genus Homo. Discuss their Geographical and Chronological Distribution
Describe the essential elements of a program designed to provide for the psychological well-being of captive primates. Include in your answer examples of how the elements in the program can best be achieved
The African bushmeat trade has attracted much attention from western-based conservation organisations, and many people are working hard to make the use of ic
Why do individuals disperse from their natal groups? Describe different dispersal strategies. What are the genetic consequences of dispersal for the individual, the social group, species population structure and conservation?..("
What makes some primates more or less vulnerable to extinction? - A look at the effects of hunting
We recommend that......Priority should be given to the achievement of equity in the planning, implementation and delivery of services at every level of the NHS (The ,
The effects of alcohol on the brain
We recommend that ....priority should be given to the achievements of equity in the ..... delivery of services at every level of the NHS. Discuss this statement in the light
An evaluation of the contrasting perspectives of uniform versus mufti in maternity care and an examination of the relevance to midwifery practice
Using empirical data that has been gathered on your chosen leisure sector and theoretical models of either social class, or gender, or the life cycle, evaluate the extent .
Mega Events - Do They Economically and Socially Benefit Their Host City?
The impacts of indigenous culture based tourism in New Zealand: Ethnocentrism and its implications with regard to the commoditisation of Maori images &amp; symbols
Synthesising tourism behaviour theory and real-life experience: Analysis of issues and implications for tourism management
Exploring the role of violence in selected contemporary Latin American cinema
Interventions of the United States in Latin America and their 21st century legacy
The Publisher and the Post-Structuralist. Are the two positions reconcilable in the cultural context of the 21st century?
How does Japanese Anime portray women's characters, as 'weak and vulnerable' or 'strong and heroic'?
What is meant by the term "human-wildlife conflict" ? Is this a phenomenon that only occurs within tropical regions of world?
Write an essay using the ethnography, 'Traveller Gypsies', to show how ideas about dirt and cleanliness, pollution and/or taboo may be related to systems of classification
Great and Strong
ASSIGNMENT 1 : Analysis of single text, Construction of another in response, Critical comparison
Discuss the knowledge, skills and attitudes used by the professional practitioner in promoting patient nutrition
Partnerships in Practice: Responding to Others in Health and Social Care
There is a growing trend in the zoological, veterinary and laboratory animal community to recognise the value of using operant conditioning as an animal care and
Outline and discuss patterns of geographic distribution among primates
Why do individuals disperse from their natal groups? Describe different dispersal strategies. What are the genetic consequences for the individual, the social group, species population structure and conservation?
What does the TOT (Tip of the Tongue) experience tell us about the way words may be retrieved in the brain and about speech production?
Professional skills: A multi-professional approach
Health People and Society - Essay Assignment
An analysis of the formal features of Aphra Behn's 'Song: ~On her lovin two equally'
Compare Douglas Dunn's 'The Kaleidoscope ' and Lavinia Greenlaw's 'Underworld'
Discuss the use of time in Â­two out of the three major literary genres (poetry, drama and the novel) represented on the course
Short analysis of 'The Long Small Room' including rewrite and commentary
A Comparative Analysis of Passages A and C
'It is simply a way of controlling, of ordering, of giving a shape and significance to the immense panorama of futility and anarchy which is contemporary history' - Eliot on the structure of Joyce's Ulysses.
Compare 'The Kaleidoscope' by Douglas Dunn and 'On Re-Recording Mozart' by Susan Wicks
Discuss the use of Time in two out of the three major literary genres represented in the course
How can sociology and psychology help health and social care prof..
The Magic Box by Kit Wright
Visual Communication
How can Revenue Management be implemented so that all types of customers will perceive it as fair and reasonable?
Commercial hosts, need to offer "genuine" hospitality?
Discuss a single stanza, scene or chapter from two texts from different literary genres assessing their significance to their respective narratives overall. What
Compare the following poems: -Ben Jonson, 'On my First Son' -Julie O'Callaghan, 'Pleeeeeeeeease'
Discuss the representation and use of childhood in literature of the Romantic Period
Why Study Literature?
Thomas Wyatt, 'Forget Not Yet'
2. Compare the following poems: (a) John Wilmot, Earl of Rochester, 'Upon his Leaving his Mistress (b) Simon Armitage, '[I am very bothered when I think]'
SVEVO AND JOYCE FRIENDSHIP: IMPROVING THE LITERARY AIM OF ONE OF THE MOST IMPORTANT ITALIAN WRITER
What were the ecological pressures which caused primate traits to evolve?
Religion' is sometimes a difficult concept to apply to beliefs and practices....
On her loving two equally
The Kaleidoscope' by Douglas Dunn and 'Underworld' by Lavinia Greenlaw
Reflective paper - sustainable development strategies
Compare and contrast the various systems of local government revenue collection and determine which one (if any) best protects the local democracy
what part does the concept of elasticity play in analysing the potential effectiveness of government attempts to encourage pulic transport at the expense of the private car?
a discussion on the effect the work of Robert Venturi has had on architectural thinking and society
Write an essay, using ethnography or other sources about a particular people, to show how ideas about dirt...
Essay Question 2
How important is Montaigne's preface "To the Reader" for our appreciation of any two or more chapters of the essays?
To what extent tdo you consider that the exchange of money in the commerial sector makes the concepts of hospitality.........
Question 3: Identify, explain and evaluate a significant issue reported in academic literature concerning the effective application of revenue (or yield) management in hotels.
Gender identities assignment
Discuss a poetic section, dramatic scene or chapter from two out of the three texts from different literary genres that you have studied so far in the course.
How important is Montaigne's preface 'to the reader' for our appreciation of any two or more chapters of the essays?
Write an analysis of the formal features of Aphra Behn's 'song: on her loving two equally'
Compare the two poema: 'upon his leaving his mistress' by John wilmot, and 'I am very bothered when I think' by Simon Armitage.
What are the chief characteristics of modernist literature?
compare and contrast the various systems
Land prices determine house prices. Using research evidence, critically evaluate this statement.
Discuss whether the eway in which the UK housing market functions prevents British entry into the Euro
Describe the multiplicity of levels and sectors in the system of English local governance. Outline...
Examine the relationship between language and spectacle in the texts of at least two authors
My magnificent bull
The First Men on Mercury
How important is Montaigne's "To the Reader" for our appreciation of any two or more of the essays?
Professional question: How can the teaching of pronunciation gain greater prominence a pre-undergraduate EAP course?
Effective communication is one of the HPC standards for health professionals. Describe effective communication and explain how this can facilitate therapy practice.
The translation of strategy into performance measures for the hospitality industry
Present a summary of current perspectives on how the lexicon is organised, ie how it is structured. Include in your discussion topics such as lexicalization, sense relations, and lexical composition ...
Discuss the importance of language in establishing a sense of identity
Psycholinguistics essay
Argumentative paper
Discuss, with examples, how the attitudes of different people to gifts and exchange may reveal broader information about their social organisation.
Should ESOL teachers be trusted to create their own approaches to learning?
Compare and contrast two 'authentic' texts (spoken or written) identiying some of the choices (linguistic and pragmatic) that 'realise' the particular set of 'goals' and purposes...
Analysing a language point
Discuss the representation of Knowledge in English Renaissance Literature
The Victorian feminist Barbara Bodichon observed that 'there is no important office that [women] can hold, with the single exception of that of that of sovereign'; comment on both the explicit and implicit ...
How can sociology and psychology help health and social care professionals to understand the experience of health or the effects of ilness / disability / service delivery on the individual?
The Author to her book' by Anne Bradshaw. A close reading
Who shapes the city?
The role of the public, voluntary and private sectors in providing leisure opportunities
Gender essay
Containing urban growth
Compare and contrast the various systems of local government revenue collection.
Discuss some of the ways in which a society manages to maintian a degree of social and moral order amongst its members. Try to use informal examples as well as formal ones, and to provide ethnographic illustrations of your ideas.
Drawing on relevant literature and examples from your own personal experience describe occupational imbalance and occupational deprivation. Discuss how they relate to you as an occupational being and might influence your health and wellbeing
This house believes that the active management of the third stage of labour is the safest option for delivering the placenta and membranes.
Does functionalism offer a more plausible theory of intentional states than it does of sensations and other states of consciousness?
The realisty of evil makes it impossible for the God of classical theism to exist. Discuss.
Critically discuss Aristotle's understanding of Eudaimonia. Can his two accounts be reconciled?
Critically evaluate the ideas on God and/or religion of one of the figures covered on this course
Writers that were part of that period of experimentation that is often termed 'modernishm' seem to have lost faith in narrative...
Which, in your opinion is the most plausible account of meaning?
To what extent would you agree with the claim that God's existence can be proved? ....
Is the Gothic always subversive?
The central argument of Plato's Republic rests to a great extent on the analogy drawn between...
Discuss the representation of female sexuality in one or more texts of the period.
Smoking ban-argumentative essay
Standardisation of hospitality services provides customers with consistent quality and ensures that staffs are able to deliver it
Kes
Low cost airlines
Outline the major ways in which inequalities are manifested in cities...
Modern literature
The role of time in drama and the novel
A Pragmatic Analysis of a script from Friends
Why should the Gothic offer a particularly resonant genre through which to consider the specific anxieties facing women?
Close Textual Analysis of the Ball Scene (0:32:48) in Dragonwyck
From Historiographic Metafiction to Trauma Studies: Different Interpretations of History in Graham Swift's Waterland
To what extent do you consider the exchange of money in the commercial sector makes the concepts of hospitality derived from the private and social domains redundant in understanding the management of the modern hospitality industry?
Force feeding never works. US - EC dispute on Approval and Marketing of Biotech Products
Consider the three paradigms of consumer (Cognitive, Reinforcement and Habit).
Can we ever ensure food safety?
What evidence is there for the exchange and specialization in the production of Neolithic artefacts in the Aegean?
What problems are there in reconstructing the Hellenistic city of Athens?
When did the early state emerge in mainland Greece and what form did it take?
How far did the seas unite or divide Neolithic communities on the Cycladic islands?
The Haimon Painter: a construct
Grazing - good or bad for Britain's landscape?
Principal-agent Problem Essay
Economic Essay
Monopolistic Industry is inefficient in comparison with perfect competition
Analysis of Spoken Discourse Sample
It is inadequate to describe English obstruent phonemes as voiced and voiceless. Explain this statement, commenting on how English listeners tell the difference between voiced and voiceless obstruents in syllable initial and syllable final position.
All varieties of English are equal. Discuss.
Differences between males and females ways of talking.
Patterns and meanings are connected
Modality has nothing to do with form
'The vast majority of health problems in captive reptiles are a direct consequence of improper husbandry techniques resulting from a failure by the owner to properly understand their requirements.'
The Practise of Food Manufacture is Essentially an Unnatural Occupation
Ageing Essay
Cost of malaria
Insect Conservation: A Personal Perspective
Climate change in horticulture
In the context of changing roles and relationships between State, Market and Civil Society, identify and discuss what you understand by the term 'decentralisation', including positive aspects, and possible risks and negative consequences.
What is the effect of the social variables of gender and class on the way we speak? Is there a link between them?
Chimpanzees can use signs, but do they have language?
Children's reading and writing has to be learned, in contrast to their speech
Write an essay on what the differences are between males' and females' ways of talking...
How Far Does Language After Age Five Differ From What Has Developed Up To That Point?
A Case Study into the Introduction, Development and Impact of English in Hong Kong
Can the food Industry be blamed for the increase in obesity in the UK?
The Structure of the Syllable and its Teaching Implications
Discuss the pursuit of justice with reference to at least two plays
Compare the attitudes to fighting given by Diomedes, Hector and Achilles in the Iliad
What is Roman about Aenaeas' heroism?
Rural Extension: Shifting from technology transfer to communication to support innovation
Farmers' Experimentation and Formal Experimentation
How are the functions of Roman towns reflected in the Archaeological record? Discuss with reference to specific sites.
What impact has archaeology had on our knowledge of the Medieval peasant?
Were hunters cleverer than scavengers? Discuss in relation to Middle Palaeolithic subsistence strategies.
What was the contribution made by the army to the roman towns of Northern Europe?
How far can archaeologists reconstruct past social relations using evidence for the disposal of the dead?
What role did humans play in the extinction of Mediterranean Island faunas? Discuss in relation to Cyprus and Mallorca.
How was Augustus represented as 'between god and man'?
In need for stabilisation: the case of the soft fruit market in Poland
What about dairy if subsidies must go? Elimination of export subsidies within the WTO framework and its potential impact on the European dairy policy
This house believes that there is no good reason for continuing to ban whaling
Genetically modified food - are consumer concerns justified?
(5) "Modality is a semantic notion rather than a grammatical notion in English." Explain why you agree or disagree with this statement.
(4) Why has it been said that English 'has only two tenses'? Show how this claim is controversial, depending on how the notion of tense is characterised, and explain whether you are convinced by it.
(8) To what extent does contemporary English have syntactic rules for expressing quantification in: a) negative clauses and b) interrogative clauses?
What are the suggested functions for the Avebury monument complex?
Compare and Contrast Two Towns From Different Parts of the Empire, Discussing Both Ancient and Modern Factors
Discuss with examples, why waterlogged sites are especially suitable for recovery of evidence for past environments
Is it accurate to discuss the citizen women of Athens in terms of 'seclusion'?
Did the Athenians treat their slaves as human beings?
What is the effect of the social variables of class and gender on the way we speak? Is there a link between them?
The role of social differentiation in development interventions
Linking farmers' and formal experimentation: Are there real synergies?
It is inadequate to describe English obstruent phonemes as voiced and voiceless
To what extent is our view of child-directed speech and its effects culturally biased?
Theoretical propositions regarding the effects of opening a small developing country to free trade - Analysis and Discussion-
Regional trade agreements - What are the implications for developing countries active in agricultural trade?
What effect, if any, did the Peloponnesian War have on Athenian society?
For what reasons did Vespasian succeed in the civil wars of AD 69?
How did marriage alter the public and private identities of men and women?
How important was agrarian reform in 133 BC? Did the Gracchi have the solution?
How did the Roman elites view foreign religions? Discuss.
Discuss how Fellini's Satyricon addresses cinema's relationship to ancient Greek and Roman classics and cinema's value as a means of reconstructing and consuming ancient Rome in the present.
Commentary on Plutarch, Life of Pericles 38-39
Is Medea anything more than a figure of male nightmares?
The study of linguistics is essential to speech and language pathology. Discuss this statement with reference to two communication disorders.
To what extent were people responsible for extinction during glaciation and post glacial?
A Review of Factors Affecting Degree of L2 Foreign Accent
The Use of Zanmen in Northern Chinese and Its Disappearance in Southern Chinese
What Are the Main Types of Ambiguity?
Write an essay on what the differences are between males' and females' ways of talking, how this has been investigated and what explanations have been suggested for the differences found.
All Varieties of English are Equal. Discuss.
To what extent is tense in English a matter of syntax? Compare the various approaches to defining tense that you have studied on this course.
'One of the most important observations in a corpus-based description of English is that patterns and meanings are connected'- Discuss ...
Neolithic burial practice and politics
What was more important in the creation of the early Egyptian state: warfare or ideology?
How did the Greeks construct Greek and non-Greek identity?
WHICH WORDS COLLOCATE WITH THE WORDS ISLAMIC AND MUSLIM(S)?
One of the most important observations in a corpus-based description of English is that patterns and meanings are connected
Comparative Discourse Analysis of a Political Speech and an Academic Journal Article
How do we distinguish determiners from other elements that premodify nouns in English? Are there semantic classes of determiners that behave in grammatically distinct ways?
Analysis of the Limerick as a Form of Language Play
Can homonymy and polysemy be distinguished? If yes, how; if no, why not?
What is Roman about Aeneas' heroism?
Did the Athenians create a state run by the people?
How do the myths you have studied conform to Greek stereotypes about the natures and roles of male and female? How do they challenge these stereotypes?
Was Rome an aggressive imperialist power?
How did the ancient writers seek to characterise youth as a stage of life? What kind of behaviour pattern was associated with this period?
What are the special attractions for cinema of mythology? Including "Jason and the Argonauts" (1963) as one of your examples, discuss some of the different ways that myth has been filmed.
In the Iliad, is being a good hero compatible with good leadership?
Do a close reading of either the opening or closing sequence of any of the films we have studied...
The study of linguistics is essential to speech and language pathology. Discuss this statement with reference to two communicative disorders.
How did the Greeks construct Greek and non-Greek identity? In your essay you may like to consider any relevant historical events, texts or visual images
What factors caused a gladiator to be viewed as a hero in ancient Rome?
What effect, if any, did the Peloponnesian War have on either Athenian or Spartan Society?
How far did Carthage's aim in the First and Second Punic Wars differ?
Was the Roman emperor perceived as human or divine?
Discuss the topics of slavery and race in Spartacus and Gladiator
What does the role of the gods contribute to the Iliad and the Odyssey?
Discuss the imagaery of the Aeschylian trilogy 'Oresteia'.
Discuss the part played by marriage and 'friendship' in Catullan love-poetry
To what extent are the surviving sources on Agesilaos objective?
Was the Roman imperial cult mainly a political or religious phenomenon?
Which do you consider to have had the grater influence on Hercules(1997), previous Disney productions or films set in the ancient world, and why?
Is Medea just a figure of male's nightmare?
The Effects of Prehistoric Man on British Soils (Neolithic - Iron age)
Consumer attitudes to genetic modification of food in Europe and the USA - similarities and differences
Consider agricultural export subsidies and explain why they could be a danger for developing countries.
Can the food industry be blamed for the increase in obesity in the UK?
Task 8: How do you think alliances such as NAFTA and the EU would affect your business? ...
Discuss why Physicists think that the Universe is expanding
Give an account of what you understand by rationalism and empiricism as approaches to scientific knowledge. Discuss problems associated with both methods outlining the philosophical contributions made by Descartes, Bacon, Hume and Popper.
CRITICALLY DISCUSS THE RELATIVE SCIENTIFIC MERITS OF THE HELIOCENTRIC AND GEOCENTRIC MODELS OF THE SOLAR SYSTEM
WHY DO PHYSICISTS THINK THAT STRING THEORY OFFERS A ROUTE TO A UNIFIED MODEL OF PHYSICS?
Why Do Scientists Believe The Universe Is Expanding?
QUANTUM GRAVITY
The Social, Legal and Ethical Aspects of Computer Science
Intelligent Buildings
In business: why it is important to design before you program
Discuss the contribution of 2 of the following to the Roman economy: samian ware; amphorae; coinage; shipwreks
Describe the different models of 'birth' presented in Greek myth. Why were there so many alternatives?
Why was virginity such an important theme in ancient myth?
Discuss the differences between males and females way of talking. How has this been investigated and what explanations have been suggested for the differences found?
Grand Challenges Essay
What were the main characteristics of Neolithic societies?
Did the Athenian Empire benefit anyone other than the Athenian citizens themselves?
The Influence of IT on Agriculture and Rural Enterprises
[no title]
What is meant by the term 'sustainable rural communities'? ...
Explain why modern science can be considered to begin in 1543...
Why was virginity such an important theme in Ancient Myth?
What roles were played by half-human, half-animal creatures in ancient myth?
Discuss the significances attached to the notion of change within the Metamorphoses
The goddess Isis has been worshipped in Egypt since the 3rd millennium BC but it is only in the Hellenistic period her cult starts to spread into the broader Mediterranean world. How do we account for the change?
Applications of Ubiquitous Computing
The inter-relationship between biomass and climate change.
Artificial cranial modification or congenital abnormality: differential diagnosis
How has the understanding of the Avebury Complex changed since the publication of Windmill Hill and Avebury by Isobel Smith?
How has our conception of the early Neolithic pattern of settlement changed in recent years?
Discuss and evaluate the evidence used to reconstruct subsistence in prehistoric hunter-gatherers
Living in cold climates. What picture do we have of this period and Neanderthal adaptation to it?
What approaches have been adopted for the study of megalithic monuments in Europe? What are their strengths and weaknesses?
Discuss and evaluate the evidence for Neanderthal speech
What is a ritual landscape? Is the term useful anymore?
Cohesion and coherence in the fairy tale 'The White Snake': micro- and macro-structural patterns
'What is the effect of the social variables of class and gender on the way we speak? Is there a link between them?'
Produce a portfolio of media texts around a given topic, theme or genre. Write a semiotic commentary which analyses and critically compares your portfolio of texts.
'In what ways can aphasia inform our knowledge about the localisation of functions in the human brain?'
To what extent do readers rely upon information from decoding the written text and to what extent do they bring in information from external sources?
Discuss the figure of the virgin in ancient Greek myth
What roles were played by hybrid creatures in ancient myth?
How far has diplomacy changed since the end of the Cold war?
Why has there been a rise in regionalism in the international economy?
Is it possible to be a naturalist moral realist without denying that there is a connection between moral judgements and motivation? If so, how? If not, why not?
Why does Jonathan Dancy think that particularism is more plausible than Ross' Deontology? Is he right about this?
Is there a defensible way to understand the claim that the meaning of an expression is an idea in the mind?
If meaning is a matter of evidence or truth conditions, how is that questions and commands have meaning?
Examine diplomatic methods used by Russian Fed in the conduct of its FP. In what ways, if at all, does it reflect dom interests?
Is there a defensible form of epistemological relativism?
The ban on hunting with dogs is more about class than animal welfare
My Dog is a Vegetarian
Euripides, Suppliants, 'What beneficial aspects of democracy does Theseus chose to mention in his speech?'
Virgil, Aeneid, 'How is love presented in the extracts?'
What is characteristically Roman about Aeneas' heroism?
How might we explain the ongoing fascination with the figure of Helen of Troy? Discuss in relation to one or two post-classical re-workings.
Why did the Greeks perform sacrifice?
What can we infer from the burial rites of the 5th to 8th centuries AD in Europe?
What are main kinds of inferences made by archaeologists from the material remains of the disposal of the dead? Illustrate your answer with a case study.
What are the main kinds of inferences made by archaeologists from the material remains of the disposal of the dead? Illustrate with a case study.
What can we infer from burial rites of the 5th to 8th centuries AD in Europe?
How might archaeologists demonstrate the presence of deliberate Neanderthal burials?
Does Women of Trachis seem to you to represent women in the ways fifth century Athens would expect?
What is Characteristically Roman about Aeneas' heroism?
Do ancient Greek myths of rape teach about hierarchies of power or about other social concerns?
What Roles Were Played By Hybrid or Monstrous Creatures in Greek Myth?
Source Criticism - The Lyon Tablet and the Claudius Speech on the Gallic senators Annals 11.23-5
What made some Romans ready to lose their lives opposing emperors such as Nero and the Flavians
A hero will rise Discuss popular cinema's refiguring of the gladiator as a hero. Refer to at least two films.
Are equal political rights an adequate response to Moller Okin's analysis of gender structures in society?
What is the best argument for Substance Dualism?
Is it possible to be an error theorist without claiming that all moral judgements are false? If so, how? If not, why not?
Is there good reason to agree with Plato that properties are universals?
Is knowledge Justified True Belief? If not, why not?
Can punishment be justified in either purely retributive or purely consequentialist terms? If not, how can it be justified?
How should paedophilia be defined? What, if anything, is wrong with it?
What are the strengths and weaknesses of Austin's command theory of law? Explain and evaluate Hart's criticism of Austin.
Does the distinction between spatial and temporal order further the aim of teleological arguments?
Does Pascal show that informed agnosticism/atheism is irrational?
Discuss the figure of fatherhood in two plays studied this term.
Does Lucan's Civil War have a place for heroism and the heroic?
In the 'Iliad', is being a good hero compatible with good leadership?
How does Thucydides' description of the plague of Athens relate to Hippocratic theories of the causation and cure of epidemic disease?
Consider the power relations between 'lover' and 'beloved' in the poetry of the elegists - Tibullus and Propertius
How has our knowledge of medieval peasant buildings changed over the last twenty years?
HOW HAVE ANTHROPOLOGICAL APPROACHES INFLUENCED THE ARCHAEOLOGICAL STUDY OF EXCHANGE?
URBAN DEVELOPMENT AND SETTLEMENT SHIFTS IN THE LATE BRONZE AGE LEVANT.
Evaluate the significance of wrecks and other boat finds in understanding cultural contacts in Viking-age north-west Europe
Cart Saddle from Horsham, Sussex
HOW HAVE ARCHAEOLOGISTS ACCOUNTED FOR THE DEPOSITION OF METALLURGY (IN BOTH WET AND DRY CONTEXTS) IN EUROPE?
Were vikings raiders or traders?
What is Palaeolithic rock art for?
What inferences can archaeologists make from material remains of the dead?
In what way can aphasia inform our knowledge about the localisation of language functions in the human brain?
When language develops atypically, a similar pattern of deficits is found within the different levels of language regardless of the cause of the language impairment. Discuss this statement with reference to two or more congenital disorders.
One of the definition of SLI by exclusion states that "children with SLI have no non-verbal deficits". Discuss.
The Scientific Nature of Jules Verne's 'Journey to the Centre of the Earth'
How far did Carthage's aims in the First and Second Punic Wars differ?
Should we condemn Plato's model state, as proposed in the Republic, as elitist?
Greek Bible: The Wisdom of Solomon
Was Isis Egyptian, Greek or Roman and was she a New or Old Deity?
Plutarch and the Theban Magicians: Reinterpreting Egyptian Mythology in the Roman Period
Why is the Carolingian period so important for the transmission of Latin texts?
Discuss the implications of herbicide revocation following implementation of EU directive 91/414 on UK horticulture.
Do male and female poets use the dramatic monologue form to different effect?
A Practical Criticism of W. Wordsworth's We Are Seven
How does religious history illuminate the poems of John Donne?
Discuss the techniques of Royalist propaganda in The Famous Tragedie of King Charles, Basely Butchered (1649).
Tiresias should be the patron saint of theatre - he was both a man and a woman. (Genet) Analyse the construction of male, female or androgynous roles in two or more plays written since 1880.
Athena: 'This is a court now.' (Harrisoeschylus, Eumenides) Explore the ways two dramatists studied this term explore questions of guilt and punishment.
